Creation of enums.md for kotlin (#2862)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/enums/enums.md

---
Title: 'Enums'
Description: 'Enums are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Enums'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Data Structures'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Enums** are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

Kotlin enums are called enum classes and they aren't simply collections of constants, as in other languages, they also have properties, methods, etc. Each enum acts as a separate instance of the enum class, and the declaration begins with the keywords `enum class` followed by the class name.

> Oftentimes compared with enums corresponding to `java`, kotlin enums do not require that one knows all possible values at compile time and their declaration does not create a class behind the scenes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often compared to enums corresponding to `java`, kotlin enums do not require that one knows all possible values at compile time and their declaration does not create a class behind the scenes.
```

        // Adding an else clause will generate a warning
    }
}
```

the output:

```shell
The symbol of Iron is Fe
```

Use of constructors to add more properties -

## Example

```kotlin
enum class COLORS(val symbol: String) {
    RED(symbol: "war"),
    BLUE(symbol: "peace"),
    WHITE(ymbol: "neutrality")
}
fun main()
{
    printIn(COLORS.RED.symbol)
}
```
the output:

```shell
war
```

Implementing interface - 

## Example

```kotlin
interface IAccountInterestRates {
    fun getInterestRate() : Double
}
 
enum class AccountTypes(val minBalance: Int) : IAccountInterestRates {
    SAVINGS_ACCOUNT(0) {
        override fun getInterestRate(): Double {
            return(1.2)
        }
    },
    CHECKING_ACCOUNT(100) {
        override fun getInterestRate(): Double {
            return(0.5)
        }
    },
    WALLET(100) {
        override fun getInterestRate(): Double {
            return(0.0)
        }
    }
}
 
fun main() {
    // calling static method in Enum
    println("Savings bank interest rate is : ${AccountTypes.SAVINGS_ACCOUNT.getInterestRate()}")
}
```

output is:

```shell
Savings bank interest rate is : 1.2
```

Enums as Anonymous Classes –

> Enum constants also behaves as anonymous classes by implementing their own functions along with overriding the abstract functions of the class. The most important thing is that each enum constant must be override.

Reviewer: [nitpick/question] “What should enum constants be overridden by?” is something developers would ask as they read this paragraph. Consider adding the information that I provided below to your paragraph.
```suggestion
Enum constants behave as anonymous classes by implementing their own functions along with overriding the abstract functions of the class. The most important thing is that each enum constant must be overridden by using its own functions along with overriding the abstract functions of the class.
```

---
Title: 'Enums'
Description: 'Enums are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Enums'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Data Structures'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Enums** are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

Kotlin enums are called enum classes and they aren't simply collections of constants, as in other languages, they also have properties, methods, etc. Each enum acts as a separate instance of the enum class, and the declaration begins with the keywords `enum class` followed by the class name.

> Often compared to enums corresponding to `java`, kotlin enums do not require that one knows all possible values at compile time and their declaration does not create a class behind the scenes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Often compared to enums in Java, Kotlin enums do not require that one knows all possible values at compile time, and their declaration does not create a class behind the scenes.
```

> Beyond custom methods and properties limited to `java` enums, kotlin enums can use anonymous classes and implement interfaces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Beyond custom methods and properties found in Java enums, Kotlin enums can use anonymous classes and implement interfaces.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
enum class <enum_class_name> {
  constant1,
  constant2,
  constant3
}
```

> Enums properties and methods –

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enums Properties and Methods 
```

> Properties –

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Properties:
```

- `ordinal`: This property stores the ordinal value of the constant, which is usually a zero-based index.
- `name`: This property stores the name of the constant.

> Methods –

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Methods:
```

- `values`: This method returns a list of all the constants defined within the enum class.
- `valueOf`: This method returns the enum constant that matches the input string passed. If the constant, is not present in the enum, then an `IllegalArgumentException` is thrown.

> ## Example (on properties and methods)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The following example demonstrates the use of the enum class properties in Kotlin:

```kotlin
enum class GASOLINE {
    DIESEL,
    PREMIUM,
    UNLEADED
}
fun main()
{
    // A simple demonstration of properties
    for (gasoline in GASOLINE.values()) {println("${gasoline.ordinal} = ${gasoline.name}")}}
```

This prints the following output:

```shell
0 = DIESEL
1 = PREMIUM
2 = UNLEADED
```

> and the use of methods:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code demonstrates the basic use of an enum method:
```

```kotlin
enum class GASOLINE {
    DIESEL,
    PREMIUM,
    UNLEADED
}
fun main()
{
    // A simple demonstration of methods
    for (gasoline in GASOLINE.values()) println("${GASOLINE.valueOf("UNLEADED")}")
}
```

> the output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This results in the following output:
```

```shell
UNLEADED
UNLEADED
UNLEADED
```

> The use of when expression -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using the `when` Expression
```

> One of the interesting features of kotlin enums is the complete elimination of the need to use the else clause because of the restriction on the value that a type can take.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the interesting features of Kotlin enums is the complete elimination of the need to use the else clause because of the restriction on the value that a type can take.
```

> ## Example (for the when expression)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the use of `when` with an enum class:
```

```kotlin
enum class TRADED_METALS{
    GOLD,
    SILVER,
    COPPER,
    IRON,
    TITANIUM,
    PLATINUM,
    LITHIUM;
}
   
fun main(){
    when(TRADED_METALS.IRON){
        TRADED_METALS.GOLD -> println("The symbol of Gold is Au")
        TRADED_METALS.SILVER -> println("The symbol of Silver is Ag")
        TRADED_METALS.COPPER -> println("The symbol of Copper is Cu")
        TRADED_METALS.IRON -> println("The symbol of Iron is Fe")
        TRADED_METALS.TITANIUM -> println("The symbol of Titanium is Ti")
        TRADED_METALS.PLATINUM -> println("The symbol of Platinum is Pt")
        TRADED_METALS.LITHIUM -> println("The symbol of Lithium is Li")
        // Adding an else clause will generate a warning
    }
}
```

> the output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will return the following output:
```

```shell
The symbol of Iron is Fe
```

> Use of constructors to add more properties -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The Use of Constructors to Add Properties
```

## Example (on use of constructors)

```kotlin

> enum class COLORS(val symbol: String) {
>     RED(symbol: "war"),
>     BLUE(symbol: "peace"),
>     WHITE(ymbol: "neutrality")
> }
> fun main()
> {
>     printIn(COLORS.RED.symbol)
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enum class COLORS(val symbol: String) {
    RED("war"),
    BLUE("peace"),
    WHITE("neutrality")
}
fun main()
{
    println(COLORS.RED.symbol)
}
```

```

> the output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example above returns:
```

```shell
war
```

> Implementing interface -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Implementing an Interface
```

> ## Example (on implementing interface)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to implement an interface:
```

```kotlin
interface IAccountInterestRates {
    fun getInterestRate() : Double
}
 
enum class AccountTypes(val minBalance: Int) : IAccountInterestRates {
    SAVINGS_ACCOUNT(0) {
        override fun getInterestRate(): Double {
            return(1.2)
        }
    },
    CHECKING_ACCOUNT(100) {
        override fun getInterestRate(): Double {
            return(0.5)
        }
    },
    WALLET(100) {
        override fun getInterestRate(): Double {
            return(0.0)
        }
    }
}
 
fun main() {

>     // calling static method in Enum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Calling a static method within the enum
```

    println("Savings bank interest rate is : ${AccountTypes.SAVINGS_ACCOUNT.getInterestRate()}")
}
```

> output is:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The output is:
```

```shell
Savings bank interest rate is : 1.2
```

> Enums as Anonymous Classes –

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enums as Anonymous Classes
```

Enum constants behave as anonymous classes by implementing their own functions along with overriding the abstract functions of the class. The most important thing is that each enum constant must be overridden by using its own functions along with overriding the abstract functions of the class.

> ## Example (on anonymous classes)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates how enum constants can be declared through an anonymous class:
```

---
Title: 'Enums'

> Description: 'Enums are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Enums are a type of class primarily used for representing predefined constants.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Enums'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Data Structures'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Enums** are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

Reviewer 2: update as above

> Kotlin enums are called enum classes and they aren't just mere collections of constants, they also have properties, methods, etc. Each enum acts as a separate instance of the enum class, and the declaration begins with the keywords `enum class` followed by the class name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kotlin enums are called enum classes and they aren't simply collections of constants, as in other languages, they also have properties, methods, etc. Each enum acts as a separate instance of the enum class, and the declaration begins with the keywords `enum class` followed by the class name.
```

Reviewer 2: Since enums in kotlin have additional many additional features, which are being highlighted here in the description, we should also explain what they are and how they work in more detail in this entry. 

Additionally, it appears that a lot of the content here is very similar to the this site: https://blog.logrocket.com/kotlin-enum-classes-complete-guide/

While it can beneficial to review other documentation for reference or inspiration, all content within submitted entries should be original. Plagiarism is not permitted within docs. I would suggest expanding this entry a bit to include some of the elements described above and creating original examples that supports the content.

Author: noted this

thanks

---

> Title: 'Arrays'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: 'Enums'
```

> Description: 'Enums are special data types that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Enums are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Enums'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Data Structures'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Enums** are special data types that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Enums** are a special data type that enable a variable to be a set of predefined constants.
```

> Kotlin enums are called enum classes and they aren't just mere collections of constants because they have properties, methods etc. Each acts as separate instances of the class and separated by commas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kotlin enums are called enum classes and they aren't just mere collections of constants, they also have properties, methods, etc. Each enum acts as a separate instance of the enum class, and the declaration begins with the keywords `enum class` followed by the class name.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
enum class <enum_class_name> {
  constant1,
  constant2,
  constant3
}
```

Enums properties and methods –

Properties –

> `ordinal`: This property stores the ordinal value of the constant, which is usually a zero-based index.
> `name`: This property stores the name of the constant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ordinal`: This property stores the ordinal value of the constant, which is usually a zero-based index.
- `name`: This property stores the name of the constant.
```

Methods –

> `values`: This method returns a list of all the constants defined within the enum class.
> `valueOf`: This methods returns the enum constant defined in enum, matching the input string. If the constant, is not present in the enum, then an IllegalArgumentException is thrown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `values`: This method returns a list of all the constants defined within the enum class.
- `valueOf`: This method returns the enum constant that matches the input string passed. If the constant, is not present in the enum, then an `IllegalArgumentException` is thrown.
```

## Example

> The following example demonstrates enum class in kotlin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the use of the enum class in Kotlin:
```

```kotlin
enum class DAYS {
    SUNDAY,
    MONDAY,
    TUESDAY,
    WEDNESDAY,
    THURSDAY,
    FRIDAY,
    SATURDAY
}
fun main()
{
    // A simple demonstration of properties and methods
    for (day in DAYS.values()) {
        println("${day.ordinal} = ${day.name}")
        }

>         println("${DAYS.valueOf(" WEDNESDAY ")}")

Reviewer 2: line 62 includes whitespaces which will result in an error. Please revise the code or the output to match

Author: @caupolicandiaz

noted this

thanks
